

# An opinionated template for Data Packages built with Seedcase packages

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.16540439.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16540439)
[![Copier](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/copier-org/copier/master/img/badge/badge-grayscale-inverted-border-teal.json?raw=true)](https://github.com/copier-org/copier)
[![GitHub
License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/seedcase-project/template-data-package)](https://github.com/seedcase-project/template-data-package/blob/main/LICENSE.md)
[![GitHub
Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/seedcase-project/template-data-package)](https://github.com/seedcase-project/template-data-package/releases/latest)
[![Test](https://github.com/seedcase-project/template-data-package/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/seedcase-project/template-data-package/actions/workflows/build-package.yml)
[![Build
documentation](https://github.com/seedcase-project/template-data-package/actions/workflows/build-website.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/seedcase-project/template-data-package/actions/workflows/build-website.yml)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/seedcase-project/template-data-package/actions/workflows/github-code-scanning/codeql/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/seedcase-project/template-data-package/actions/workflows/github-code-scanning/codeql)
[![pre-commit.ci
status](https://results.pre-commit.ci/badge/github/seedcase-project/template-data-package/main.svg)](https://results.pre-commit.ci/latest/github/seedcase-project/template-data-package/main)
[![lifecycle](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/figures/lifecycle-experimental.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
[![Project Status: Active – The project has reached a stable, usable
state and is being actively
developed.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#active)

This repository contains a template for setting up a new [Data
Package](https://datapackage.org/) following the Seedcase structure. Use
this template to quickly get started with a new Data Package with all
the necessary files and configurations in place, including for
developing the Data Package. See the features section below for details
on what is included in this template.

Check out our
[website](https://template-data-package.seedcase-project.org/) for more
information, such as a
[guide](https://template-data-package.seedcase-project.org/docs/guide/)
for using the template. For a list of changes, see our
[changelog](https://template-data-package.seedcase-project.org/docs/releases/)
page.

## Contributing

Check out our [contributing
page](https://template-data-package.seedcase-project.org/CONTRIBUTING/)
for information on how to contribute to the project, including how to
set up your development environment.

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](https://github.com/seedcase-project/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.

## Licensing

This project is licensed under the [MIT
License](https://github.com/seedcase-project/template-data-package/blob/main/LICENSE.md).

## Citing

This project is part of the Seedcase Project, which is a collaborative
effort to create a framework for data management and analysis in
research. If you use this project in your work, please cite it as
follows:

Johnston L.W., Brødbæk S.K., Beicher K., Vago M. Template Data Package:
An opinionated setup for making FAIR and structured data using Seedcase
Python packages. DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.16540439 URL:
https://template-data-package.seedcase-project.org

Or as a BibTeX entry:

    @misc{YourReferenceHere,
    author = {Johnston, Luke William and Brødbæk, Signe Kirk and Beicher, Kristiane and Vago, Marton},
    doi = {10.5281/zenodo.16540439},
    title = {Template Data Package: An opinionated setup for making FAIR and structured data using Seedcase Python packages.},
    url = {https://template-data-package.seedcase-project.org}
    }
